---
layout: article
title: AE 656 - Aviation Fuels and their Combustion
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-656
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: theory project
---

# 2020
### Prof. Sudarshan Kumar
**Author**: Yashika Singhal

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
Introduction, Various fuels, solid, liquid and gaseous fuels, Aviation fuels requirements and specifications. Chemical thermo-dynamics, Laws of thermodynamics applied to reacting systems. Equilibrium composition, Adiabatic flame temperature. Chemical kinetics, Reaction rates, Gas phase reactions, Surface reactions. Combustion : Premixed and diffusion flames, Laminar and turbulent flames, Flame velocities, Flame propagation theories, Diffusion flame, Droplet Combustion. Application to gas turbine combustor and rocket engine.

**Evaluation Structure**:
It was based on mid-sem, end-sem written exam, one project and one assignment.

**Motivation to take up the course**: 
The course was different from our regular core courses and was a bit inclined towards chemistry which happens to be my strong hand. Hence!

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: They were easy, but you should regularly read the content given, it is not huge, but if you start procrastinating, you will never be able to catch up. TA's and prof are very very helpful.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: No strict policy for attendance. We are given material to read and if someone has any doubt, then they can attend the class and clear their doubt.

---

**Professor's Teaching Style**: 
Sir is very patient and understanding. He explains things well, although there aren't many doubts if you read the text properly, but in case you do, sir will help you right away on whatsapp and definitely in regular class.

**Should you do this course?**: 
All those who want to see a different perspective of Aerospace. It also helps in the course of Propulsion.

---
