---
layout: article
title: AE 667 - Rotary Wing Aerodynamics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-667
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: aerodynamics theory assignments
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Dhwanil Shukla
**Author**: Malhar Prajapati

**Pre-requisite courses**: None.

**Pre-requisite skills**: 2-5 assignments are coding based. No restriction on language.


**Course Content**:
- Rotor Hover Performance Prediction Methods
- Vertical Descent of Rotors
- Rotors in Forward Flight
- Vehicle Performance
- Advanced topics

**Motivation to take up the course**: This is probably the only course in the institute regarding helicopters and drones. I really wanted to know these stuff. I heard before that Helicopters are really hard to fly compared to planes and I wanted to figure why is that. Course really answered my questions.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: Best thing about the course - NO EXAMS/QUIZZES, only assignments. 5 assignments - each for 17%, that is 85% and 15% for seminar, which was srcapped due to pandemic and 3 best assignments out of 5 were considered. They were really interesting and learning based.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 6-10 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: He added 5% due to pandemic. Other wise not required, but I strongly reccommend attending all the lectures, I found them pretty awesome.


---

**General funda**: Just pay attention in class. Assignments won't fell like work, they are more like fun(at least the first one)


**Grading stats**:

| AA |  6 |
| AB |  4 |
| BB |  4 |
| BC |  3 |
| CC |  1 |
| CD |  1 |
| DD |  1 |
| FF |  2 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Professor is really awesome. He is really young and enthusiastic about his work. He knows his stuff in detail and you can really take the opportunity of actual learning from him. He really spends time in checking each assignment submission and give comments which actually make sense and provide learning. After he checked our assignments, he spent a lecture totally on feedback, a fun lecture where he explained his points with memes. One of the best professor I ever had



**Should you do this course?**: Without a doubt, just take this course if you wants to learn about helicopter rotors. This is an opportunity not to miss.

---
