---
layout: article
title: AE 651 - Aerodynamics of Compressors and Turbines
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-651
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory project
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. A. M. Pradeep
**Author**: Malhar Prajapati

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
- Aerodynamics of Compressors and Turbines
- Axial flow compressors and Fans
- Axial flow turbines
- Centrifugal Compressors
- Radial Turbine
- Use of CFD for Turbomachinery analysis and design

**Motivation to take up the course**: I wanted to go more deeper into compressor and turbine, and this course seemed perfect for me. Also, I had heard that Pradeep sir is good and stuff, so I just took it


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: 1 Project - 20%

Designing a compressor/turbine/fan according to given dimension and pressure ratio to be achieved

Professor will give the code, we just need to tune some parameters such that we get the flow convergence

It will output the blade coordinates, we need to make CAD in any software


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Difficult

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: Not mandatory


---

**General funda**: Quizzes are pretty much from the slides and tutorials. But midsem and endsem have some amount of plotting some performance plots as well. They are also frmo the slides but I need to mug up them, because there were really large amount of graphs and I was getting confused between them. I personally didn't like this part of the course.
The project can be scoring, but he didn't show marks for projects, so I am not so sure.


**Grading stats**:

| AA | 4  |
| AB | 9  |
| BB | 12  |
| DD | 1  |
| FR |  2 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Professor is truly awesome. He knows his stuff very well. He showed us actual compressor and turbine blades which were on an actual aircraft at some time

**Should you do this course?**: If you wanna know the course content mentioned above, then this course is for you. You will actually learn this stuff, without regrets. Most of the students are from MTech. I would recommend to take this course with some friend so that you can discuss the project with each other and study together. P.S. MTech people do score really well(most of them)

---
