---
layout: article
title: AE 624 - Hypersonic Flow Theory
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-624
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: aerodynamics theory
---


# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Viren Menezes
**Author**: Yashika Singhal

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 236](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-236.html): Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Pre-requisite skills**:

**Course Content**:
Aerodynamics- Hypersonic Flow Theory. We have studied about aerodynamics in subsonic and supersonic flow till now. In this course we study about hypersonic flow. So the basic concepts remain the same, just the situation changes here. 

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
Regular quizzes. 10/15% weightage of each quiz.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
0.5 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: No attendance required


---

**General funda**: 
Don't give quizzes without studying. And take out 4-5 hours to study everything before the quiz, you will definitely score 90% or above in the quiz.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: 
Please regularly attend lectures. Or atleast be at the same page with the classes. Because you will not be able to score in the quizzes although they are not very difficult. You will really regret it. Sir teaches the subject as if they are teaching a 8th standard student, everything becomes easy, but sometimes a bit stretched.

**Should you do this course?**: 
Everyone can. I think, this is a scoring course so everyone does good. Average is also high, but the overall grade decreases due to high average and relative Grading. 66% types pe 7 grade lagi thi iss saal.

---



# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Viren Menezes
**Author**: Maharshi Pathak

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 236](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-236.html): Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
1. General aspects of hypersonic flow
2. Derivations of pressure ratios, density ratios, temperature ratios across hypersonic shocks
3. Newtonian, modified Newtonian methods
4. Shock-boundary layer interactions
5. Stagnation point heat flux for hypersonic flow vehicles

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

- 1 quiz: 30%

- Midsem: 30%

- Endsem: 40%


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: No attendance required


---

**General funda**: Class notes are sufficient to score a good grade. Scoring a 10 requires effort as several MTechs also register for this course.


**Professor's Teaching Style**: There are no lecture slides for this course. Class notes are more than sufficient. Even if you miss some classes, it is easy to catch up as it is not a difficult course and consists mostly of formulae.

**Should you do this course?**: This is a formula-intensive course, i.e. 30% of the course consists of theory and the rest consists of formulae and their applications. Course content is relatively easy to grasp. It is very similar in structure to AE 236 and so if you liked the former, then I would recommend you to take this course.

---

