---
layout: article
title: AE 626 - Spacecraft Attitude Dynamics and Control
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-626
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: controls theory project
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Ashok Joshi
**Author**: Piyush Jirwankar

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**:

**Course Content**:
* Relative motion
* Rigid body attitude dynamics
* single axis dynamics
* 3 axis dynamics
* Polhode
* Herpolhode etc.

**Motivation to take up the course**: I was already informally exposed to spacecraft attitude dynamics and control. I wanted to give it a more formal touch and this course was perfect to do so.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: A 15 mark project was originally scheduled, but was scraped because of the pandemic.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: None. However, the prof conducts a 1 mark quiz (total 20) in every class, thus having to attend all the classes.

---

**General funda**: Studying for daily class quizzes (1 mark each) usually suffices to sail easily through the course. Practising the questions uploaded by the prof helps immensely in grasping the concepts

**Grading stats**:

| AA | 6  |
| AB | 3  |
| DD | 1  |
| PP | 21  |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: The prof is very interested in students’ learning. While the lectures could get a but monotonous, they help immensely in understanding concepts prove important from exam point of view. Lecture slides are to the point, and prove useful for last minute prep.



**Should you do this course?**: Those interested to get exposed to the area of spacecraft dynamics should take this course. This course was started for the first time in 2019-20 spring. It covers various important aspects related to the subject, thus giving enough exposure to those looking for it.


---
