---
layout: article
title: AE 706 - Computational Fluid Dynamics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-706
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: assignments theory
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. J. C. Mandal
**Author**: Rohit Tembhare

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: It is helpful if you are comfortable with basic fluid mechanics (AE 225). Other than that, all the assignments are done in C.


**Course Content**:
* Basic equations of fluid dynamics .
* Mathematical nature of the flow equations & their boundry conditions.
 * Grids and transformations.
 * Basic discretization techniques: finite difference, finite volume, and finite element methods.
* Analysis of numerical schemes.

**Motivation to take up the course**: It is a good introductory course to start learning CFD.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

Assignments: 30%
Midsem: 30%
Endsem: 40%



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)

Between 6-10 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: 80% Compulsory!!


---

**General funda**: Professor doesn't like to share slides with student. Paying attention and making proper notes it quite important. Examples solved in the class are quite useful for the exams.


**Grading stats**:

| S | 17  |
| PP | 26  |
| AU | 3  |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Professor is good at teaching. He clears all the doubts quite well. Some might find other course policies regarding attendance and sharing of study material little strident.

**Should you do this course?**: Ones who want to explore CFD. If you want to do CFD projects then this course could be helpful.


---
