---
layout: article
title: AE 681- Combustion of Solid Propellants
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-681
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory
---


# Autumn 2021
### Prof.  Nagendra Kumar
**Author**: Yashika Singhal

**Pre-requisite courses**: No prerequisties

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
Check ASC as it has updated course contents. Is similar to AE656 and Aerospace Propulsion

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
Midsem-40%
Endsem-60%

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
Apart from lectures less than 3 hrs per week


**Attendance Policy**: No mandatory attendance


---

**General funda**: 
The instructor gave a question bank few days before the exam. And all the numerical questions were from that bank. Numerical questions comprise 70% of the each midsem and endsem paper. But those questions are not easy to solve. Make sure that you solve the entire question bank till the last step before sitting for the exam. Please make a small group or something, it would really help. And refer to 1-2 standard books as some of the questions in the bank are directly from the illustrations of those books (rocket Propulsion by K Ramamurthi). Doing this can get you very good grade. But this task is not as easy as it sounds, so please make sure that you do this if you take up this course. And do not forget to crib if there is slightest scope for increament of marks. 

**Feedback on Lectures**: 
The lecture delivery was good

**Should you do this course?**: 
Anyone who is inclined in solving numerical problems

---
