---
layout: article
title: AE 622 - Computing of High Speed Flows
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-622
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: project theory
---

# Autumn 2021
### Prof. Krishnendu Sinha
**Author**: Ayush Sarraf

**Pre-requisite courses**: AE 223, AE 225 and AE 236

**Pre-requisite skills**: No hard prerequisite, but knowledge of either coding or simulation tools preferred


**Course Content**:
Review of basics gas dynamics, hypersonic flows, turbulence modeling, computation fluid dynamics.CFD topics _ grid refinement and convergence, explicit and implicit time-integration, grid aspect ration and stretching, flow initilization and development, boundary conditions.Research topics re-entry capsule; bow shock, stagnation region, heat transfer, chemical reactions; inlet and nozzle flows: laminar and turbulent boundary layer, turbulence models, show-turbulent layer, flow reattachment; base flows: pressure drag, wake flow, transition to turbulence; jet exhaust plumes: under and over-expanded jets; shock-shock interaction: classification based on shock patterns.

**Motivation to take up the course**:
It is a good introductory course to start learning CFD. Wanted to get started with CFD and also the course grading was completely based on a semester-long hands on project.
---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

3 project presentations - 85%
Attendance - 5%
Peer review and class participation - 10%



**Project Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
Between 2-3 hrs/week

**Attendance Policy**: No DX grade but marks was allotted to attendance and class participation.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: One semester-long project was the main crux of the course. The project could be either based on simulations, code development or simply a paper review. Simulation and code development projects could be done in groups of 2 while paper review was needed to be done individually. There were three presentation based on motivation, procedure and results involved in the project and each had a viva after the presentation.

**General funda**: Do attend the lectures regularly and ask questions in the class. Also, choose the project topic of your interest, sensibly so that it can be completed by the end of the semester. Work regularly on the project.

**Feedback on Lectures**: The lectures were very well-paced and fairly descriptive with some advanced topics highlighted at the end for self-research. Recordings of the lectures were provided before hand and the prof later discussed the content in the class hours.

**Who can take this course?**: Anyone who is enthusiastic about CFD and want to learn about the physical interpretation of different numerical methods used to solve the fluid mechanics equations.


---
