---
layout: article
title: AE 710 - Aeroacoustics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-710
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: project python programming fluids theory
---

# Spring 2022
### Prof. Aniruddha Sinha
**Author**: M Vishnu Sankar

**Pre-requisite courses**: Fluid Dynamics

**Pre-requisite skills**: Python/MATLAB programming

**Course Content**:
Preliminaries:
1. Introduction
2. Fourier (spectral) analysis of (acoustic) signals
Propagation of sound waves:
3. 1-D acoustics in a medium at rest
4. 3-D acoustics in a general base flow
5. Elements of solutions of Helmholtz equation
6. Acoustic fluctuations in non-uniform media (sheared flows)
Computational aeroacoustics:
7. Spatial discretization of governing equations in wavenumber space
8. Time discretization
9. Finite difference solutions of linearized Euler equation, and implementation of boundary conditions
Aeroacoustic sources and their sound fields:
10. Sources of aeroacoustic sound and their resultant fields
11. Sound field of oscillating spheres (as elemental sources)
12. Introduction to generalized functions
13. Green’s theory for solution of partial differential equations, as required in acoustics
14. Sound field due to monopole, dipole and quadrupole sources, their importance, and their
relation to oscillating spheres
15. Analysis of sound due to moving sources
16. Reciprocal theorem in linear acoustics
17. Kirchhoff’s formula of linear acoustics in the presence of surfaces
18. Lighthill’s theory, and application to jet noise
19. Ffowcs-Williams and Hawkings’ formulation of nonlinear acoustics in the presence of surfaces
20. Scattering of sound at an edge, as applicable to airfoil noise
21. Study of current literature on various topics of aeroacoustics


**Motivation to take up the course**: I love Sinha Sir's teaching and any topic related to fluid mechanics

---

**Course Evaluation Structure**:

- 10%: Weekly 5-min. quiz (10x1%)

- 10%: 30-minute quiz (2x5%)

- 50%: Homework assignments (4 assignments, 10%, 10%, 20%, 10%) (2 computational assignments and 2 problem solving type assignments. Assignments are not straight forward, start solving them well before the deadline to finish them on time)

- 10%: Literature study report and presentation

- 20%: Final exam (comprehensive)

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Projects/Assignments Difficulty**: 5/5

---

**General funda**: This is not a course which you can study a few days before the exam and get along with it. If you flunk the classes be prepared to flunk the exams as well


**Professor's Teaching Style**: Sinha sir's lectures are amazing, the beautiful mathematical essence and physical intuitions are never missing in his lectures. 

**Should you do this course?**: Anyone interested in understanding the practical and theoretical understanding of Aeroaoustics (computational aspect of it especially) can take this course. It is definitely one of the most 'hot' research topics out there. Has a lot of potential applications on Urban Air Mobility vehicles and supersonic flight travel.

**References**: 
 
- Goldstein, M. E., Aeroacoustics, McGraw-Hill, 1976
- C. K. W. Tam. Computational Aeroacoustics: A Wave Number Approach. Cambridge Univ
Press, 2012

---
