---
layout: article
title: AE 678 - AeroElasticity
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective me-472
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: theory assignments
---

# Spring 2022
### Prof. P M Mujumdar
**Author**: Goparaju Khushal

**Pre-requisite courses**: AE 227, AE 225, AE 305

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic Coding

**Course Content**:
Please refer to asc for this

**Motivation to take up the course**: Very important concept to learn from application perspective

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
2 Assignments, first one is easy, second one is more of a project and needs lot of effort and quite difficult but what you learn from it is proper application of static aeroelasticity to a real aircraft wing.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 5/5


**Assignments/Project Difficulty**: 5/5

**Info about Projects/Assignments**:
The assignments were very lengthy and time consuming, but sadly each assignment carries only 7%. The final project includes a project presentation and a report submission, you are free to choose any topic of your interest. You are expected to implement some of the concepts through numerical implementation. Working on the assignments diligently helps a lot in acing through the project. 

---

**General funda**: The assignments are lengthy so get started with them as soon as possible. The exams have a few questions similar to the ones in assignments, so solve your assignments diligently. A class of about an hour and a half is very tiresome for this course, try not to loose track of the lectures. 

**Professor's Teaching Style**: The lectures are detailed and to the point, the professor shows example problems solved numerically in MATLAB. 

**References OR online resources**:
- Non-linear Dynamics and Chaos, book by Prof. Steven Strogatz
- Lecture series by Prof. Steven Strogatz: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbN57C5Zdl6j_qJA-pARJnKsmROzPnO9V
- Lecture series by Prof. Shane Ross: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUeHTafWecAUqSh3Gy0NNr7H3OsXoC-aK

**Should you do this course?**: 
The course presents an intuitive and graphical approach to nonlinear phenomena. The first half of the course is more about equipping oneself with the graphical approaches to find unstable and stable solutions of nonlinear equations. The second half of the course is little more mathematically involved without losing track of the visual approaches involved to tackle such problems. If you are interested in diving deep to learn about the patterns that are present hidden in the so called 'Chaotic phenomena' (such as turbulence) this course gives you the right tools to do so.

---

