---
layout: article
title: AE 673 - Fiber Reinforced Composites
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-673
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: project theory structures assignments
---


# Autumn 2021
### Prof. Chandra Sekher Yerramalli
**Author**: Goparaju Khushal

**Pre-requisite courses**: AE 227

**Pre-requisite skills**: Knowledge of Linear Elasticity and Basic Coding

**Course Content**:
1) History and introduction to composites
2) Manufacturing Methods
3) Orthotropic and Transversly Isotropic Properties
4) Shear-Lag model, Strength based approach and Composite Cylinders Assemblage Model
5) Lamina coordinate transformations
6) Classical Laminate Theory
7) Thermal and hygroscopic effects
8) Failure in composites and different criterion used
9) Equations of composite beams and plates

---

**Coure Evaluation**:
- 5 Assignments - 40%
- Project - 50%
- Quizzes - 10%

**Motivation behind taking the course**:
Composites are widely used in aerospace industry and was interested to learn about them

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
Assignments are build upon each other, so for doing the next assignment all the previous assignments are needed. First half of the semester has 5 assignments and second half contains only project. Project needs the code developed from the assignment. Both projects and assignments are easy if the concepts in the class are well understood, but are time taking to solve. The project(individual) will be about designing a component/object made of composite

**Overall Course Difficulty**: 3/5

**Average Time Commitment**:
Each Assignment needs around 4~8 hrs, Project (all stages together) take around 15~20 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**: 
Solving the derivations done in the class by ourselves during free time helps a lot to understand the methods and to solve the assignments. Professor appreciates a good looking report/ppt with sufficient detail. Marks will be deducted if the presentation is bad, despite the content being correct. Hence a "Good Presentation" of assignments and project ppt is suggested. Stick to any time constraints/deadlines provided. Other than these the course content is pretty interesting, chill and enjoyable. The project gives a very unique experience on how to design a composite structure for any given requirements. 

**Feedback on Lectures**: 
Content is easy to understand and classes only go for 30~40 mins, rest of the time is left for discussion

**Who can take this course?**: 
Anyone interested in aero structures, or anyone who wants to know about the designing of composite based structures

---
