---
layout: article
title: AE649-Finite Element Method
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-649
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: Finite Element Method
---

# Autumn2023
### Prof PJ Guruprasad

**Author**: Vighnesh J.R.

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Linear Algebra, solid mechanics and structural mechanics, a bit of MATLAB

**Course Content**: 
* The course extensively addresses numerical techniques for handling solid mechanics (and dynamics) and linear physical problems, encompassing heat conduction and viscous flow. We start with how to  discretise  domain into finite elements, connecting these elements, and deriving approximate solutions for differential equations. Emphasis is placed on solving the weak form of these equations hence  employing energy-minimising like strategies to solve solid mechanics problems. The curriculum also focuses on understanding the physical significance of various kinds of boundary conditions and their practical implementation within FEM problems. Furthermore, students construct a 1D FEM Model applicable to simplified scenarios, such as analysing a tensile rod  and a  Euler-Bernoulli beam under various load. Following the mid-semester phase, participants are introduced to 2D FEM models for solving scalar and vector fields. We are also introduced to various elements and their corresponding shape functions. Finally the course  is concluded by a brief overview of 3D FEM and numerical optimisation methods.


**Motivation to take up the course**: A go to intro course for people interested in Linear Algebra and Numerical methods to solve solid mechanics problems. It is an engineering based course that gives good intuition to build up on the knowledge of he course provides. I took it because of its scope in combustion instability problems and also partly due to peer induced FOMO

---
**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Level of effort  [Level of effort you put into the course]**: 2/5

**Evaluation Structure**:2 Quizzes (10% each) , 6 Assignments(10%)( one is a coding assignment ) Midsem (30%) and (40%). Grading is done by the professor himself and you have a one to one appointment with him where you can crib over a chat. He makes you count your own marks. Grades are given on basis of % of the topper’s marks.

**Attendance Policy**: There is mandatory 85% but prof didn’t implement it properly due to logistics issues

**Info about Projects/Assignments**: Prof gave a total of 6 assignments one of them was a coding assignment meanwhile the rest was problem sheets to be solved and uploaded online on moodle.

**Difficult level of Projects/Assignments [Difficuly]**: 2/5

---

**Feedback on Lectures (in terms of lecture delivery or ease of understanding, prof's teaching style )**: Prof teaches in a  medium-slow pace. He uses both slides and black board and he derives on board. He dedicates few lectures after teaching to problem solving. Unfortunately missed a lot of lectures when i took the course. Otherwise he could have covered a lot more.

**References OR online resources (E.g.  drive link for recorded lecture videos etc.)**: "
1. R. D. Cook, Concepts and Application of Finite Element Analysis: a treatment of the finite element method as used for the analysis of displacement, strain, and stress, John Wiley , 2nd Edition, New York, 1974.
2. O. C. Zienkiewicz and R. L. Taylor, Finite Element Method, 4 th Edition, McGraw-Hill, UK, 1989.
3. J. N. Reddy, Introduction to Finite Element Method, Mc-Graw Hill, New York, 1985.
4. K. J. Bathe, Finite Element Procedures, Prentice Hall, New York, 1995."

**General funda**It was a morning course. It’s relatively chill and he allows formula sheet for exams. Make sure to revise your jee integration skills and you have to use integration by parts too often.

**Who can take this course?**:Anyone interested in solid mechanics or heat flow or numerical methods in general. 

---
