---
layout: article
title: SC602
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective sc-602
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: Finite Element Method
---

# Spring 2022
### Prof. Sukumar Srikant

**Author**: Vaibhav Upadhyay

**Pre-requisite courses**:SC 639, SC 202 & SC 301 

**Pre-requisite skills**:This course has no strict prerequisites, and you can pick up any unfamiliar concepts as you go.  While having a basic understanding of linear systems, stability, and control is advantageous, it's not obligatory; you can learn these concepts along the way in the course.

**Course Content**: 
* An introduction to vector fields, flows and integral curves of differential equations, affine-in-the control nonlinear systems, equilibria, notions of stability, La Salle`s invariance principle, feedback linearization, zero dynamics, controller design examples, distributions, integrable and involutive distributions


**Motivation to take up the course**:  If you've always been intrigued by nonlinear controller design, this course is your ideal starting point

---
**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Level of effort  [Level of effort you put into the course]**: 4/5

**Evaluation Structure**:
Assignments : 50%
Mid-sem: 20% 
End-Sem: 30% "
**Attendance Policy**: 
No Compulsory Attendance 

**Info about Projects/Assignments**: The course includes simulation assignments for applying nonlinear controllers to real-world systems such as a 2-DOF Robotic Manipulator and Spacecraft Attitude Control (Keep in mind that there simulation assignment carries a lot of weight).

**Difficult level of Projects/Assignments [Difficuly]**: 4/5

---

**Feedback on Lectures (in terms of lecture delivery or ease of understanding, prof's teaching style )**: Prof. Sukumar Srikant is an amazing teacher. So, if you attend regularly you will enjoy the course for sure.

**References OR online resources (E.g.  drive link for recorded lecture videos etc.)**: "
 https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDREIwGwrHBde_dGnQK_23idQQOvUV72q

**General funda** Its highly recommended to attend classes, especially for those new to rigorous mathematical courses. Last-night study can be very risky.

**Who can take this course?**:Anyone with an interest in nonlinear controls or those who got bored of linearizing the systems

---
