---
layout: article
title: GNR 652 - Machine Learning for Remote Sensing

aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: institute_elective gnr-652
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: insti_elective assignments project
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Biplab Banerjee
**Author**: Nakul Randad

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic programming proficiency in Python/Julia saves the struggle during assignments. The following prerequisites were preferable but not mandatory: Linear Algebra, Basic Multivariable Calculus and Probability.


**Course Content**:
1. Regression
2. Classification
3. Clustering
4. Probabilistic methods
5. SVMs
6. Dimensionality Reduction
7. Selected topics in Neural Networks (CNN, RNN etc)

**Motivation to take up the course**: This course gives a basic introduction to Machine Learning which includes Supervised-Unsupervised Learning, Feature Recognition, Dimensionality Reduction, Neural Networks etc.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

Coding Assignments (Individual):
Application of known algorithms covered in lectures. They were fairly straight forward and took around 4-5 hours to complete. These assignments helped in understanding the implementation of the theory taught in class.

Course Project (Group):
Students were required to implement a research paper of their choice and demonstrate the results in the final presentation.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs

**Attendance Policy**:
75% attendance was mandatory, below which there was some penalty

---

**General funda**: Going through the slides and practising a few problems suffices for the exams. Exams are more of understanding based with a bit of maths here and there

**Grading stats**: Check ASC.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: The professor taught all theory in class with the help of slides. The pace of the lectures was quite slow, hence they were easy to follow and understand. A few tutorials were arranged wherein TAs explained the actual code implementing algorithms.

**Should you do this course?**: If you are interested in doing ML or wish to have a sneek-peek at it then this course is a good place to start. If you have already taken any other ML introductory course then I won’t recommend you take this course as you won’t learn anything new.


---
