---
layout: article
title: GP 401 - Global Geophysics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: institute_elective gp-401
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: insti_elective theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Kumar Hemant Singh
**Author**: K T Prajwal Prathiksh

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: None


**Course Content**:
* Structure and composition of the Earth - Geodynamics
* Theory and fundamental concepts of Plate Tectonics: Rotation vectors, Rotation poles, Present day plate motions & Triple junctions
* Geophysical framework of the earth: Spherical harmonic representation of potential functions.
* Gravity: figure of the earth, shape, rotation, tidal friction, gravity field of earth and Isostasy
* Geomagnetism: internal, external field & their causes, geodynamo theory
* Paleomagnetism: Polar wander paths, Seafloor spreading and Continental drift
* Heat flow: heat transfer mechanism, thermal regime, thermal structure of the earth, volcanism, Hot spots and mantle plumes
* Elastic waves: internal structure and variation physical properties in the interior of the earth

**Motivation to take up the course**: Was interested in learning more about planetary dynamics.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: There were no assignments/projects/quizzes. Just a Mid-Sem & End-Sem exam.



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Easy

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**:There is no official policy, but try to attend all the classes since that does have an effect on your grade.

---

**General funda**: Attend all the classes. Memorize the handful of derivations in the course. Go through the lecture slides and the reference book since quite a lot of theory, despite being easy to understand, needs to be covered. Can be done three-four days prior to the exams.


**Grading stats**: The best grading policy I've ever seen XD. Most got 10s & 9s. No one got a 7 or below.


**Professor's Teaching Style**: A pretty chill professor. The teaching isn't the best, but you understand most of the things, and the rest can be covered up with books/slides. Since this course is a core-course for first year master's students, you will have to convince the professor that you really are interested and make sure you attend the classes.



**Should you do this course?**: Someone who is interested in planetary dynamics (a very niche topic) can hands down take up this course.


---
