---
layout: article
title: CL 686 - Advanced Process Control
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: institute_elective cl-686
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: insti_elective
---

# Spring 2020-21
### Prof. Sachin Patwardhan
**Author**: Milind Anil Kharwade

**Pre-requisite courses**: Basic courses on Controls and Linear Algebra

**Pre-requisite skills**: MATLAB basics would be very helpful. Although demo codes and help sessions were conducted sometimes.

**Course Content**: Linear Perturbation Models, Stability Analysis, Quadratic Optimal Control, Model Predictive Control, Kalman Filtering, System Identification.

**Motivation to take up the course**: Strongly advised by a project guide. Course contents was also very interesting.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: They were all based on application of concepts taught. Demo codes of similar problems was provided for better understanding. Detailed instructions on basic programming logic/method was given. Help sessions were also conducted.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: 4/5

**Evaluation Structure**:
20% Programming Assignments, 15% Course Project, 15% Paper Reading and Presentation (Seminar), 5% Quiz, 20% Midsem, 25% Endsem.

**Lecture Style and Delivery**:
Lectures and lecture slides were simple and easy to understand. Concepts were generally covered from the basics. Instructor was very interested in student's learning and understanding. The instructor was also very friendly to approach to.

**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**: The course was quite heavy and time demanding, but was definitely worth it. Understanding of concepts was enough for exams, memorizing is not required. Working on project, assignments, presentations should not be left till the last moment to make the best out of the course.

**Should you do this course?**: Most of the students are 4th year UGs or PGs. Although 3rd year UGs with enough background in controls can also take.

---
