---
layout: article
title: CS 213 - Data Structures and Algorithms
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor cse cs-213
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: cse theory project
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Sharat
**Author**: Miloni Atal


**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic programming skills (e.g. CS101) 


**Course Content**:
Elementary aspects of data structures and algorithms

**Motivation to take up the course**: It is an elemenentary course for computer science and helpful in any work that involved coding. It is also very helpful for internship/placement preparation for coding profile.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
The 5 assignments were a mixture of coding and theoretical questions. For each question (including coding) we had to explain our approach in detail in a Reflection essay along with justifying the correctness of our solution. Average time given was around a week. Penalties were applied for late submission. The questions of assignments were significantly difficult, whereas the timed tests had comparatively easy questions.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Evaluation Structure**: 
* Assignments - 5 (Coding and theory questions, average time given a week)
* Timed Tests - 3 (Coding and theory questions, around 2-3 hours)
* Almost equal weightage - (11-14%)



**Attendance Policy**: No

---

**General funda**: Be regular with the lectures, put time and effort into understanding and solving the assignment questions.  Avoid discussing/taking help/copying from your batch mates, leads to severe repercussions (The prof takes this very seriously). Be calm during the timed-tests as they are quite easy, unless you panic due to the time-frame.





**Should you do this course?**: Anyone who loves coding or is interested in learning the basics.


---

