---
layout: article
title: CS 416 - Computer and Network Security
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor cse cs-416
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: cse theory project
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Kameswari Chebrolu
**Author**: Malhar Prajapati


**Pre-requisite courses**: CS 224

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic knowledge of coding is necessary, Familiarity with linux can be useful.


**Course Content**:

1. Motivation, Terminology/Background, History
2. Confidentiality, Integrity, Authentication: Foundations, Symmetric key encryption, Block modes, Asymmetric key encryption, Hashes, MACs, Digital Signatures
3. Human authentication, key distribution, oneway/mutual/mediated authentication, Case Study: SSL/TLS
4. Buffer Overflow, Access control, Process Control
5. Attacks at link/network/transport/application layer, Denial of Service (DOS) attacks, Firewalls, Intrusion Detection
6. Client/Server side attacks: Session Hijacking, Phishing, Click jacking, Scripting, Database/SQL injection; Defenses against the same
7. Malware types and case studies

**Motivation to take up the course**: Network security is something which I wanted to learn somehow. What happens in the backhand of internet and security provided by money transfer and mail, chat privacy motivated me for taking up this course.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

* Safe quizzes - 10%
* MidSem - 30.00%
* Labs - 20.00%
* Endsem -  40.00%

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Difficult

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 6-10 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: Not mandatory, but ma'am discusses practical aspects of the course for half of the class, without that you would not get much learning or perform poor in Lab exams.


---

**General funda**:

**Grading stats**:

| AA | 7  |
| AB | 10  |
| BB |  12 |
| BC |  19 |
| CC |   9|
| CD |   12|
| DD |   8|
| FR |   3|

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Flipped classroom system was followed. Ma'am uploads the videos on BodheeTree and you have to watch before the class. Ma'am will discuss the major point and then some hands-on exercises will be there. Sometimes it can happen that you won't be able to watch videos before the class. I personally found it boring to sit in the hostel room and watch these videos. But, yeah ma'am teaching really nicely. She gives every effort for providing better learning experience as well as the implementation of the course. Labs are directly from what she discusses in the class exercises. Exams are based on slides, but with a lot of twists. Grading is not much good, because I found it genuine because after doing so much effort, ma'am can expect more from you.



**Should you do this course?**: If you really want to know about what is inside title of the course, I definitively recommend this course with a condition that you would need to do effort. Course will provide a lot of opportunities for practical aspects and you can learn a lot. Stating again, time commitment is a pre-requisite.


---
