---
layout: article
title: CS 419 - Introduction to Machine Learning
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor cse cs-419
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: cse project assignments
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Preethi Jyothi
**Author**: Miloni Atal


**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Programming(Python was preferred), familiarity with basic probability theory, linear algebra, multivariable calculus


**Course Content**:
* Basic  foundations  of  ML,  classification/regression,  Naive Bayes’  classifier,  linear  and  logistic  regression
* Supervised  learning:  Decision  trees,  perceptron,  support vector  machines,  neural  networks.
* Unsupervised  learning:  k-means  clustering,    EM  algorithm.
* Other  topics:  feature  selection,  dimensionality  reduction, boosting,  bagging.
* Brief  introduction  to  ML  applications  in  computer  vision, speech  and  natural  language  processing.

**Motivation to take up the course**: Learn basic concepts of Machine Learning, currently being a very sought after field


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: The plan was to give us two Programming Assignments(20%) and one Project(10%). In programming assignments, we were given real datasets to apply the concepts learned in theory, these were hosted on Kaggle with bonus points for people with the top leaderboard score. The marking of the assignments was lenient. For the projects, we were asked to make a team of 2-3 students decide on a problem statement and deliver final presentation at end (this was scraped due to COVID situation)



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: 60% minimum attendance

---

**General funda**: Attend all the lectures to get a good understanding of the concepts and to not miss out on surprise in-class quizes.


**Grading stats**:

| AA |  16 |
| AB |  21 |
| BB |   7 |
| BC |  24 |
| CC |  6 |
| CD |  5 |


**Professor's Teaching Style**: The Professor's teaching style was really simple and the course was run at a moderate pace, attending the lectures led to a good understanding of the concepts. Added to that the programming assignments were a direct application of the theory and were fun to do(if you like programming). The exams were open book, very applicative and challenging. Tutorials were posted with solutions released within a few days, followed by doubt sessions conducted by the TAs.

**Should you do this course?**: Strongly recommend this to anyone interested in learning ML, and who loves programming


---
