---
layout: article
title: SC 301 - Linear and Nonlinear Systems
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor syscon sc-301
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: minor
---

# Spring 2020-21
### Prof. Arpita Sinha
**Author**: Manav Vora

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: MATLAB coding skills

**Course Content**: Basic theory on linear and non-linear systems like Lyapunov Stability, canonical forms etc. Basically some of the more important stuff required in controller design.

**Motivation to take up the course**: I’m pursuing a minor in Syscon and this course was a prerequisite for other courses. Also, I want to pursue my Masters in aerospace controls or robotics. So this course was very important to build a foundation.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: Coding assignments and prove that questions. Coding assignments involved making phase plots which can sometimes be difficult.

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Evaluation Structure**:
1 midsem, 1 endsem, a few quizzes on moodle and some assignments.

**Lecture Style and Delivery**:
The lectures were okayish. Not too bad not too good. Sometimes the professor was crystal clear but some times things got a bit confusing and even more unclear when the professor tried to explain.
Also, the phase plots part was not taught that clearly. That’s why almost everyone faced difficulties while coding them.

**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**: None

**Should you do this course?**: Anyone wanting to explore syscon can take this course. It gives you a nice flavour of what to expect.

**References**: The professor provided the references
She uploaded them on a Google drive 
