---
layout: article
title: SC 629 - Introduction to Probability and Random Processes
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor syscon sc-629
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: minor controls math
---

# Spring 2020-21
### Prof. Debasish Chatterjee
**Author**: Ayush Sarraf

**Pre-requisite courses**: No hard prerequisites, but basic knowledge of elementary probability theory is a plus

**Pre-requisite skills**: No skills as such is required, but little knowledge of python/MATLAB can be used at the end to try some basic Monte-Carlo simulations taught in class.

**Course Content**: Kindly check ASC for the updated course contents

**Motivation to take up the course**: To learn more about different probabilistic tools used in modelling processes and also the course could be tagged as a DS minor elective

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: The assignments were very mathematical and required quite a bit of effort and also very lengthy.

**Assignments Difficulty**: 5/5

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Evaluation Structure**:
2 quizzes - 15% each
endsem - 25%
2 assignments - 15% each
viva - 15%

**Lecture Style and Delivery**:
The lectures were very mathematical and the prof did not get into the gory details of everything. Proofs were left with hints and expected the students to figure out. 

**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**:
Try to attend as many lectures as possible and do attempt the questions highlighted by the prof in class. Also, do not skip mathematical proofs!

**Who can take this course?**:
Anyone who wants to learn about probability theory and can handle decent amount of mathematics.
