---
layout: article
title: AE 332 - Aircraft Design
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: third_year ae-332
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: design theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Avijit Chatterjee
**Author**: Sakshi Dayal

**Pre-requisite courses**: AE 152

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
- Introduction to Aircraft Design: Three phases in aircraft design, Computer based aircraft design methodologies, differences between LTA and HTA aircraft, type of civil and military aircraft.
- Configuration and Layout: Types and comparison of wing, tail, fuselage, landing gear, wing-tail combinations, power plant (types, numbers, locations), unconventional aircraft configurations.
- Sizing and Constraint Analysis: Initial sizing, estimation of design gross weight, rubber engine sizing and fixed engine sizing, refined sizing method and constraint analysis.
- Estimation Methodologies: Lift and drag coefficient, design loads, component mass breakdown, acquisition cost, direct operating cost.
- Operational and Environmental Issues: Range-payload diagram, V-n diagram, noise and emission levels

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: 10 marks (attendance – biometric/app), 10 marks (Quiz 1), 30 marks (Mid-semester), 10 marks (Quiz 2), 40 marks (End-semester)

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Easy

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: Marks for attendance

---

**General funda**: Take notes during lecture and revise every single point said in the class. Nothing beyond lecture is asked in quizzes.
Quizzes seem easy, avoid silly mistakes. Don't overthink and go with your first intuition. Give graphs, explanation wherever applicable; don't miss out any point that you believe is related to the question in any manner. Write all the intermediate steps, because you won't be awarded marks if your final answer is wrong and intermediate calculations are missing.


**Grading stats**: AA-7, AB-9, BB-10, BC-12, CC and below-7


| AA | 7  |
| AB | 9  |
| BB | 10  |
| BC | 12 |
| CC and below | 7  |


**Professor's Teaching Style**: Pay due attention to what is discussed and told in the lecture, and take all the notes.

---
