---
layout: article
title: AE 326 - Vibrations and Structural Dynamics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: third_year ae-326
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: structures theory
---

# Spring 2021
### Prof. Abhijit Gogulapati
**Author**: Sargun Sohal

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 227](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-227.html)

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic knowledge of MATLAB may be useful, but not necessarily

**Course Content**:
Single degree of freedom vibrations, damped and undamped vibrations, discrete systems with multiple degrees of freedom, generalized coordinates,  langrange equations and approximate solutions

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: 

The assignments are very open-ended. A lot of times you will have to think about which assumptions you want to take. Discussions are welcome in these assignments and it is highly recommended that you brainstorm with your peeps, as it would not only make the assignments much more interesting and fun, but also a lot more simpler to execute.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
2 hours per week

**Attendance Policy**: None

**Course Evaluation**: 
* 5 small quizzes carried out over the sem, which accounted for 20% of total grade
* 3 open ended take-home assignments which accounted for the other 80% of the total

---

**General funda**: Enjoy this course. The quizzes are something you need to study regularly for, but the assignments are fun. A rare place where you get to apply what you learn and execute stuff with respect to how you want.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: 
He has got great knowledge of the subject and is genuinely interested in the learning of students. His teaching style could seem a little monotonous, but the content is relatively easy to understand

**Should you do this course?**: 
Everyone, because its a core course. You wont get your degree without this :)

---

