---
layout: article
title: AE 308 - Control Theory
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: third_year ae-308
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: controls theory project
---

# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Arnab Maity
**Author**: Goparaju Khushal

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: MATLAB and Simulink.


**Course Content**:
 System Modeling and Dynamics
, Linearization
, Representation and Response of LTI systems
, Test Signals and Convolution
, Laplace Transform and Transfer Function
, Time Response
, Block Diagram Reduction Techniques
, Stability - Routh Hurwitz Criterion
, Tracking and Disturbance Rejection
, Non Minimum Phase System
, Control Elements
, Bode Plots
, Polar Plots
, Nyquist Plots
, Root Locus
, P, PI, PD and PID Control Design
, Lead-Lag Compensator Design

**Course Evaluation Structure**:
Surprise Quizzes + Assignments + EndSem + Project

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
All Assignments have one tricky problem and the rest are direct application from lectures, Project(individual) will be to design a controller or compensator satisfying the given requirements


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
4-5 hrs per week

**Attendance Policy**:
None, But there are surprise quizzes

---

**General funda**:
Do attend all lectures as missing one lecture will effect the understanding of the following lectures after that, missing a lecture also means chances of missing a quiz and get doubts clarified after/within the lecture itself, Prof also spends time after lecture to get our doubts clarified. Watching [Brian Douglas's](https://www.youtube.com/user/ControlLectures/playlists) videos are also very useful for this course.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Very friendly professor, lectures cover the basic content and being attentive in the lectures will ease the understanding.


---
# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Ashok Joshi
**Author**: Piyush Jirwankar

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: It helps if one has prior knowledge of MATLAB/ Python, but it’s not a pre-requisite. TAs usually take sessions on how to use MATLAB, Simulink etc. No pre-requisite in terms of knowledge of particular subject is required.


**Course Content**: Please visit portal.iitb.ac.in/asc/Courses for information about course contents.


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
A 15 mark project to be done individually was allotted by the prof. The project involved coming up with a control algorithm for a nonlinear system such that the system characteristics obey the information given in the problem statement. This required use of a programming language. While the prof recommends to use MATLAB, the choice of the programming language is up to the student.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**: (Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: No compulsory attendance policy. However, the prof does take 20 short quizzes (worth 20 marks in total) throughout the semester, which are surprise quizzes in class hours, thus requiring to attend all classes.


---

**General funda**: Attending the class is usually enough to do good in the course. Just reading slides won’t be much helpful as slides are not very descriptive, however, are to-the-point, thus good for last minute revisions. Practising questions from uploaded tutorials is usually enough.


**Grading stats**:

| AA |  5  |
| AB |  15 |
| BB |  12 |
| BC |  12 |
| FR |   4 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: The professor is very passionate about the subject, and is interested in students’ learning. He is always up for discussions, and tries his best to clear students’ doubts. While the lectures sometimes tend to get a little monotonous, they help immensely in developing a thorough understanding of the subject.

The prof, in all his courses, has a policy of taking a total of 20 surprise quizzes (1 mark each) in classes throughout the sem.

**Who should do this course**: Students who are keen on learning about dynamical systems and how to control them are recommended to take up this course. This will serve as an introductory course to control of dynamical systems, and will teach some valuable concepts that are used throughout the field of control theory. However, students pursuing a SysCon minor and having completed SC639 and SC202 will find most of the concepts repeated from these two courses.


---
