---
layout: article
title: AE 330 - Aerospace Propulsion
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: third_year ae-330
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Hrishikesh Gadgil
**Author**: Sanskriti Bhansali

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 223](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-223.html): Thermodynamics and Propulsion and [AE 236](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-236.html): Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Pre-requisite skills**: A lot of course content is what has been taught in AE 240: Spaceflight Mechanics and AE 236: Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Course Content**:
* Introduction, Various propulsive devices used for aerospace applications.
* Classifications of rockets: Electric, Nuclear and Chemical rockets, Applications of
rockets.
* Nozzle design: Flow through nozzle, Real nozzle, Equilibrium and frozen flow,
* Adaptive and non-adaptive nozzles. Thrust vector controls, Rocket performance
parameters.
* Solid propellant rockets, Grain compositions. Design of grain.
* Liquid propellant rockets, Injector design, cooling systems, Feed Systems:
* Pressure feed and turbo-pump feed system.
* Heat transfer problems in rocket engines.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: No projects/assignments. There were two quizzes, a midsem and an endsem.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate


**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: Institute Policy (80%)

---

**General funda**: First half of the course is theory and may be boring, whereas second half is a lot of repetitive of previous courses. In general grading is very strict and no marks are awarded for numerical questions where final answers are not correct.

**Grading stats**: Only 3 students were awarded AA, 8- AB and 34 students got BB, BC, CC equally distributed.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Lecture slides aren't provided, reference book needs to be used. Teaching pattern is a little boring and easy as well but then paper correction is really difficult.

**Should you do this course?**: Apart from being core course for Aerospace students, minor students can also take this up but isn't recommended since the content is repeat of previously taught courses.


---
