---
layout: post
title: "BTP: Design of an aerostat for agricultural purposes"
author: Chaitanya
description: "Project Review: BTP"
modified: 2018-01-04
tags: [BTP]
---

**Project Guide:** Prof. Rajkumar Pant

**Time Commitment Required:** 4 - 8 hrs per week

**Project Description:**  
The project deals with using aerostats for helping farmers. The initial part looked at reducing losses from animal and bird menace by employing scaring techniques on the aerostat. A sizing study was done for this system. The possibility of using hot air as an LTA(Lighter-than-air) gas instead of the current costly gases Hydrogen and Helium was also looked into. 

**Grading:** Strict

**This Project has:** Literature Review, Lab Experiments

**Recommended Prerequisites:** AE664 - Lighter-than-air Systems

**Other Areas of Interest of the Project Guide:** Aircraft design

**Remarks by author:**  
I enjoyed the project very much. The project involved lot of experimentation in the later stages which was fun to perform. It was not a conventional theory project which was a plus point for me personally. The students in the LTA lab are also very friendly and helpful which was a huge boost.

**Project References:**  


**How interesting was the project:** Highly Interesting

**How strongly would you recommend someone for taking a similar project (Not recommended-Strongly Recommended)?**  
Recommended

###### Disclaimer:The content of this website are opinions expressed by individual students. The information provided is for guidance purposes. Use the information at your own risk. 
