---
layout: article
title: AE 238 - Aerospace Structural Mechanics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-238
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: structures
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. PJ Guruprasad
**Author**: Hiya Vithlani

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 227](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-227.html)

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basics from the course AE 227 are required in this course. It would be a good strategy to revise the basics of solid mechanics for this course


---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: Since our semester and course was cut short due to Covid-19, there were no quizzes or any evaluation for that matter taken by professor.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5 (generally)

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: There was no compulsory attendance in this course, but sir had a tendency to ask what he teaches in class in examinations, it's a good practice to attend his classes.


---

**General funda**: One helpful practice can be to practice questions taken up in class thoroughly. Similar questions can be found and practiced from reference books.

The lectures can be difficult to follow if one hasn't attended classes, so that should be taken care of

**Grading stats**:
Our batch was given PP/S

The grading stats for the batch above us:

| AA |  8 |
| AB |  9 |
| BB |  19 |
| BC |   10|
| CC |   7|
| CD |   7|
| DD |   2|
| FR |   1|

**Professor's Teaching Style**:

A few pointers

1. there was less structure in the overall course conduction, so it can sometimes get difficult to follow, but being very active in classes can be helpful.

2. the questions done and discussed in class were helpful and nicely done. More tutorials would have been good though.

3. lack of regular assignments and quizzes kind of made the evaluation vague.


**Should you do this course?**: Being a core course for Aerospace students, and the basics of structural Mechanics, it's out of question how essential this course is.


---
