---
layout: article
title: AE 234 - Aerospace Propulsion
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-234
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory
---

# Spring 2021
### Prof. Kowsik Bodi
**Author**: Shashank Singh

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 223: Thermodynamics and Propulsion](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-223.html)

**Course Content**:

"Basics of lift and drag. Thrust and thrust efficiency. Efficiency and range. Thrust due to a propeller. Introduction to various aircraft propulsive devices: Piston-prop, Turbo-prop, 
Turbojet, Turbofan, Turboshaft, Vectored- thrust, Lift engines. 
Gas Turbine Cycles and cycle based performance analysis; 1-D and 2-D analysis of 
flow through gas turbine components - Intake, Compressors, Turbines, Combustion 
Chamber, Afterburner, and Nozzle."

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: Start early on assignments

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
2-3 hours on top of lectures per week is sufficient

**Course Evaluation structure**:
6-7 quizzes(60-70%) and Endsem(30-40%). One of the quizzes was a take home assignment.

**Attendance Policy**: No attendence policy because of the online mode.

---

**General funda**: 
Don't miss lectures/discussions and solve tutorial problems. Easy to score well by only doing these things.

**Professor's Teaching Style**:
Prof doesn't give written notes/slides. So taking notes would help in this course.

**Who should do this course**: People interested in exploring the propulsion side of thermodynamics.

---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Kowsik Bodi
**Author**: M Vishnu Sankar

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 223: Thermodynamics and Propulsion](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-223.html)

**Course Content**:
* Types of aircraft engines, piston-prop, RamJet, SCRamJet Turbo-(Jet,Shaft,Prop,Fan)
* Gas turbine cycles and cycle-based performance analysis
* Gas Turbine components
* Off-design performance

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: No assignments and projects were given, but the PG Version of this course has good set of computational assignments

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**: Solve tutorial problems. Go through example problems from the reference book "Saeed Farokhi - Aircraft Propulsion, Wiley(2014)".


**Grading stats**: S for everyone

**Professor's Teaching Style**:
The reference books are very much useful to cover the contents of the course. Ensure that you sit in the front bench to hear him out properly as his voice is fairly low. Make detailed notes as it helps you stay awake and it is very easy to lose track of the lecture as things won't be put up in the blackboard in a structured way. Ask doubts if you feel like losing track of the lecture as the prof appreciates interactive sessions.

Reference books:
1. "Aircraft propulsion" by Saeed Farokhi
2. "Understanding aerospace chemical propulsion" by H. S. Mukunda
3. "Jet Propulsion" by Nicholas Cumpsty

**Who should do this course**: Strongly recommended for anyone interested in aircraft propulsion. But the topics are widely related to gas turbine engines and not rocket engines.


---
