---
layout: article
title: AE 227 - Solid Mechanics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-227
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: structures theory assignments
---

# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Krishnendu Haldar
**Author**: Ayush Saraf

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Just some basic knowledge of python or matlab to plot the graphs of the equations involved in the assignments.

**Course Content**: Tensor notation, Detailed concepts of stress and strain along with their geometric interpretation, Constitutive Relation, Formulation and solution strategies, Two-dimensional formulation, Airy stress function in the polar coordinates (2D)

**Course Evaluation Structure**:

*23% - Short quizzes (Best 6 out of 10)*
*12% - Assignments (4)*
*30% - Midsems*
*35% - Endsems*

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: 
There were no projects for this course, only four assignments were given in the initial part of the course which was discontinued later and also had very less weightage.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
2-3 hours per week

**Attendance Policy**: No DX grade awarded, but since the short quizzes were announced attending all the lectures was crucial. 

---

**General funda**: 

Watching all the lectures and attending live sessions is very important. The midsem and endsem have challenging problems, so do not panic since the grading is linient in the sense that marks is given for even attempting in relatable directions.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: 

Pre-recorded lectures were given every week which had all the concepts covered in detail. The live session was meant for revision of concepts along with doubt clarification and surprise quizzes. Also, there was discussion after every quiz where the Prof. involved all the students by asking them the steps to the solution and prompting hints. So, overall the course was quite involved.

**Should you do this course?**: 
It is a core course, so everyone must take it to get an introduction into the field of structures.

---


# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Krishnendu Haldar
**Author**: Swarit Sood

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Just some basic knowledge of python or matlab to plot the graphs of the equations involved in the assignments.


**Course Content**: Check ASC

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: There were no projects given. Around 8 assignments were given. They consisted of problems based on the application of concepts discussed in the class and were fairly easy to solve. Nothing out of the box was given.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: The professor used to take attendance in the class but I don't think there was DX grade enforced.


---

**General funda**: Class notes uploaded by the professor and review of the assignment problems are enough. Being attentive in the class will be a plus point.


**Grading stats**:

| AA | 7  |
| AB |  13 |
| BB |   10|
| BC |  13 |
| FR |  6 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Reading the lecture notes uploaded by the professor are enough for the course. But  attending the lectures will surely help as the professor explains the concepts nicely.



**Should you do this course?**: Recommended for those who are interested in structures and want to get their basics clear.

---