---
layout: article
title: AE 225 - Incompressible Fluid Mechanics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-225
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: aerodynamics programming assignments theory
---
# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Prabhu Ramachandran

**Author**: Faisal Aziz

**Pre-requisite courses**: Not explicitly necessary but basic concepts of Lift and Drag from AE152 is recommended

**Pre-requisite skills**: It is good if you have a good knowledge of Python but sir provides ipython notebooks which give a good idea of what is to be done.

**Course Content**:

*Module 1 - Introduction*
Continuum, Particle theory, Knudsen number, etc
Thermodynamics and Fluids
Compressibility
Viscosity
Surface Tension
Hydrostatic Forces
Vapour Pressure

*Module 2 - Cartesian Tensors*
Index Notation
Matrix and Vector Transformations
Second Rank Tensors
Stress Tensor Properties
Gradient, Divergence, Curl
Integral Theorems

*Module 3 - Governing Equations*
Control Volume, Control Surface
Conservation Laws
Reynold's Transport Theorem
Streamlines, Streaklines, Pathlines (Theory + Programming)
Material Derivatives
Energy Equation
Bernoulli Equation
Euler's Equation

*Module 4 - Ideal Fluids*
Introduction, assumptions
Potential Flow (Theory + Programming)
Complex analysis (Theory + Programming)

*Module 5 - Viscous Flow*
Vector Potential (Theory + Programming)
Strain Tensor
Navier Stoke's Equation
Dimensional Analysis
Boundary Layer Theory
One dimensional solution to Navier Stoke's equation"

---

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
The course is a bit demanding in terms of understanding concepts. On an average 2-3 hours per week apart from lectures and tutorials is required. Although this number may increase during programing assignments if someone is not so comfortable with programming

**Attendance Policy**: Attendance is not compulsory usually. Although if the number of students in the class fall short overtime, Professor may assign 5% weightage to attendance

---

**General funda**: 
Take part in the discusiions and solve the tutorial questions uploaded in the sessions. The programming assignments are quite enjoyable and carry an appreciable weightage. Solve the assignments sincerely.

**Feedback on lectures**:
The lectures are quite interactive and discussive in nature. Prof Prabhu gives clicker questions in the class based on the lecture videos uploaded for the week. Then the solutions to each of the questions are discussed interactively with the students. The way of teaching is quite good. 

**Who should do this course**: Someone who is interested in Aerodynamics and Propulsion

---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Prabhu Ramachandran

**Author**: Sargun Singh Sohal

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: It is good if you have a good knowledge of Python but sir provides ipython notebooks which give a good idea of what is to be done.

**Course Content**:
* Fluid Properties
* Fluid Statics
* Lagrangian and Eulerian Systems
* Streamlines, streaklines, pathlines
* Stream Function, Potential function, Circulation and Vorticity
* Bernoulli Equation
* Using Stream and Potential function to study the following flows: source, sink, double, vortex. Used combinations of the given flows to derive new flows like flow over a cylinder
* Laminar Boundary Layer
* Turbulence

---
**Information about Projects/Assignments**:
Firstly, a total of 25% weightage was given to assignments.
There were 2 types of assignments given:
1) Essay type: Pick a topic of your choice related to incompressible fluid mechanics. Do some research about the topic. Write a 2-3 page essay in English. No need to add pictures or formulae. Keep it as theoretical as possible. At the end of the course, students are told to re-write the essay on the same topic but this time with insights of the AE 225 course. (5/25)

2) Programming Assignments: A lot of the concepts of the course were done using assignments in python. We were given 3 such assignments.These included flow visualization assignments using streamline, streakline and pathlines. Most of the concepts studied in the course were used in doing the assignment and it was very intriguing. (20/25)


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)

Between 3-6 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: 80% attendance, via Safe App.

---

**General funda**: I feel it is best to make sure that you do not lag behind in this course in particular, Sir picks up pace after the midsems and it gets tough to keep up if you do not attend classes regularly. The course content, I found to be really interesting, with just the right combination of math and theory.


**Grading stats**:

| AA      | 5       |
| AB      | 9       |
| BB      | 11      |
| BC      | 10      |
| CC      | 12      |
| CD      | 6       |
| DD      | 3       |
| FR      | 3       |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Sir did not provide lecture slides and the pacing of the course was perhaps not ideal. The starting part (which was something we had done during JEE and AE 152) was taken slow while the ending which was new and really interesting somewhat rushed. It could have been because it was his first time taking this course and I'm sure he would improve upon this next time around.

Apart from this I feel that Prabhu sir was really interested in the learning of students due to the sort of assignments he gave, which were really insightful. Also, the exams and quizzes did not involve the most complicated of numerical questions. They majorly tested whether we have understood the concepts properly.



**Who should do this course**: This being a core course, should be taken up by everyone. I strongly recommend doing this course well as I feel it could help you understand if you have an interest in the field of fluid mechanics.