---
layout: article
title: AE 223 - Thermodynamics and Propulsion
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-223
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory
---
# Autumn 2020

### Prof. Krishnendu Sinha

**Author**: Pranjal Gupta



**Pre-requisite courses**: None


**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic Thermodynamics from JEE, Python/Matlab can come in handy for the course project


**Course Content**: Check on ASC.

---


**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

15% - Attendance + Class Interaction

15% - Homework Problems

20% - Project

50% - End-Semester Examination



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5


**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate


**Average Time Commitment**:

3 hours per week


**Attendance Policy**: No DX, but marks for participation  

---


**General funda**:

This course will be one of the chill courses among others in your 3rd sem. The prof's teaching style is excellent and has good research experience in the field. You should interact with the prof as much as possible during lectures. Apart from the course material, the prof likes to share Aero trivia with students, which is why the live sessions are so interesting. The Homework problems are very easy, they are mostly formula-plug-and-solve type questions. The midsem was almost similar, with few questions requiring some thinking. The endsem was moderately difficult and lengthy, but it accounts for 50% weightage, so its not unreasonable. 


**Professor's Teaching Style**: 

The course content is easy to understand and the prof's teaching style is amazing. He used to send the links to his lectures uploaded on CDEEP from 3-4 years ago, and then do a quick revision during the live slots which reinforced the concepts pretty well. He tried to interact with everyone during the live lectures and had interesting discussions on related/unrelated topics. 


**Information regarding assignments/projects**:

"The project logistics are given sometime after the midsem. Student teams of 4 members each. The prof suggests 3-4 topics for the students to choose from. The students can suggest a topic of their own too. 

The course project is very suitable for this course. Since most of the course and assignments are theory, applying the concepts learnt in class for doing engine analysis (or anything else) really brings everything together. Also for many people this is the first time they work in a team for 2-3 weeks, so that is a good experience too. "


**Should you do this course?**: 

Core course for Aero sophies. Basic course in thermo and propulsion, required as a prerequisite for other courses later on. 

---

# Autumn 2019

### Prof. Krishnendu Sinha
**Author**: Ronit Shukla


**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Basic Thermodynamics from JEE

**Course Content**: Check on ASC.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:


5% - Attendance + Class Interaction

10% - In Class Graded Tutorials

35% - Mid-Semester Examination

50% - End-Semester Examination



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: DX not given. However thresholds were there for attendance for the 5% grading.


---

**General funda**:

This worked for me (Got a dassi :P)

1. Listen to what sir says in the class very very attentively. Don't worry if you'll fall asleep or not cause sir teaches in a fabulous manner, you can't take your attention off him.
2. Make notes during the class. Listen to his every instruction carefully.
3. Brush up your concepts once before going to the in-class tutorials. Solve them thoroughly even after the tutorial is over. It will help you solidify your concepts for future use
4. Practice the questions uploaded by sir and solve previous year's questions
5. Refer to the book suggested by sir whenever required. (You'll need it rarely though)


**Grading stats**:

Total - 67

| AA | 6  |
| AB | 16 |
| BB | 15 |
| BC | 8  |
| CC | 4  |
| CD | 8  |
| DD | 2  |
| FR | 8  |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Simply. Awesome.
Among all, Prof K Sinha and Prof AM Pradeep have the best teaching styles in my opinion. He interacted very actively with the students in the class as well as in the tutorials. Was always cheerful when it came to greet everyone or even when he had to wake someone up in the lecture. In overall sense, if you only attend the lectures and tutorials religiously and attentively, then with a few hours in a week apart from all these stuff will land you a comfortable 9 or a 10 grade.


**Should you do this course?**: Core course for aerospace junta, for others it's the basic course you need to do before moving to more advanced stuff in aircraft and rocket propulsion.

---