---
layout: article
title: EE 210 - Control Theory
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor elec ee-210
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: elec theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Madhu N. Belur
**Author**: K T Prajwal Prathiksh

**Pre-requisite courses**: MA 108 (Not a hard pre-requisite)

**Pre-requisite skills**: None. The concepts required can be picked up on the go.

**Course Content**:
* Continuous-time signals and systems - signal characteristics, properties of continuous-time systems
* Continuous linear time-invariant systems
* Impulse response & Convolution
* Linear constant-coefficient differential equations
* Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace transform
* System analysis frequency response
* Analog filters
* State-space analysis for continuous-time systems
* Discrete-time signals and systems
* Discrete-time LTI systems - convolution, difference equations
* Sampling

**Motivation to take up the course**: Wanted to pursue an Electrical minor, and was keen on starting it off with a theoretical course as opposed to a course that had lab-work.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: No assignments or projects were conducted. Just quizzes, Mid-Sem & End-Sem were used for the evaluation.



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: 80% Attendance was told, however, it wasn't strictly enforced.


---

**General funda**: Go through the standard reference book by Alan V. Oppenheim. Work out the problems given in the book, and tutorials. This is enough to crack the course.


**Grading stats**: Normally distributed about 'BC'.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: The method of teaching was good. However towards the end of the course, content was being repeated more often than not, and hence classes became a bit boring.


**Should you do this course?**: Someone who is interested in understanding what the theoretical aspects of an Electrical minor comprises of can take up this course.
Even students who are interested in a SysCon minor, but have not yet made up their mind and want instead want to try out related courses before ca pick this one up.


---
