---
layout: article
title: EE 221 - Digital Electronics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: minor elec ee-221
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: elec theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Subhananda Chakraborty
**Author**: Atharv Savarkar

**Pre-requisite courses**: None. First half of the course is similar to EE 101

**Pre-requisite skills**: None. 

**Course Content**:
* Introduction to Boolean Algebra and Switching Functions
* Working of sync and async counters
* Working on basic digital electronic devices like multiplexers, flip flops, etc
* Bipolar Logic Families (TTL + ECL)
* MOS logic families (NMOS and CMOS)
* Elementary combinational and sequential digital circuits: adders, comparators, shift registers, counters

**Motivation to take up the course**: Most basic course in elec. Useful in most of other courses in elec minor basket. Course has a small course project which gives a hands on experience in elec (course project is given only when instructor is prof. Subhananda Chakraborty)

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: There were 2 quizzes, 1 midsem, 1 course project, 1 endsem, 1 viva !



**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5



**Attendance Policy**: Attendance policy was fairly strict (but lectures are interesting !)


---

**General funda**: Attending lectures is best way to make full utilization of the course. Course expects lot of work from students (labs, project, viva, etc) but will surely add to knowleadge of the student.


**Grading stats**: AA	9
AB	13
AP	1
BB	6
BC	7
CC	5
CD	1
DD	2
W	1

**Professor's Teaching Style**: He is always up for discussions, and tries his best to clear students’ doubts. While the lectures sometimes tend to get a little monotonous (especially for people who have completed EE101 before taking this course), they help immensely in developing a thorough understanding of the subject. Slides are provided for the course and are good for study as well as revision


**Should you do this course?**: If you can dedicate some resonable time to the course and want to learn basics of elec then this course is for you !


---

